you
this lecture is about the implementation
of texture retrieval systems in this
lecture we will discuss how we can
implement attacks for retrieval method
to build a search engine the main cannon
is to manage a lot of text data and to
enable a query to be answered very
quickly and to respond to many queries
this is a typical texture retrieval
system architecture we can see the
documents are first processed via
tokenizer to get tokenized the units for
example word and then these words or
tokens will be processed by an indexer
that would create index which is a data
structure for the search engine to use
to quicken ends or query and the query
will be going through a similar process
in step
so the tokenizer would be applied to the
query as well so that the text can be
processed in the same way the same units
will be matched with each other and the
query representation would then be given
to the scorer which would use the index
too quickly and so users query by
scoring the documents and then ranking
them the results would be given to the
user and then the user can look at the
results and provide some feedback that
can be explicit with judgments about
which documents are good which is a bad
or implicit feedback such as clicks
flows so the user doesn't have to do any
anything extra the user would just look
at the results and skip some and click
on some results to view so these
interaction signals can be used by the
system to improve the ranking accuracy
by assuming the view documents are
better than the skip the ones so a
search engine system then can be divided
into three parts the first part is the
indexer and the second part is a score
that responds to the users query and the
third part is a feedback mechanism now
typically the index is done
the offline manner so you can
pre-process collect the data and to
build the english index which we were
introduced in a moment and this data
structure can then be used by the online
module which is the scorer to process a
user's query dynamically and quickly
generally to search results the feedback
mechanism can be done online or offline
depending on the method the
implementation of the index and the
scorer is a fairly standard and this is
the main topic of this lecture in the
next of your lectures the feedback
mechanism on the other hand has
variations it depends on which method is
used so that is you Urich down in the
algorithm specific way let's first talk
about the tokenize Torre's a Shing is to
normalize lexical units into the same
form so that semantically similar words
can be matched with each other
now in a language like English Stebbings
often use and this is what map all the
inflectional forms of words into the
same route form so for example computer
computation in computing can all be
matched to the road form compute this
way all these different forms of
computing can be matched with each other
and normally this is a good idea to
increase the coverage of documents that
are matched with this query but it's
also not always beneficial because
sometimes the subtle of this difference
between computer and computation might
still suggest the difference in the
coverage of the content but in most
cases stemming seems to be beneficial
when we talk noise the text in some
other languages for example Chinese we
might face some special challenges in
segmenting the text to find the word
boundaries because it's not obvious
where the boundary is as there is no
space to separate them
so here of course we have to use some
language specifically enamel processing
techniques once we do tokenization then
we would index the text documents and
that it'll convert the documents into
some data structure that can enable
faster search the basic idea is Dupree
computer as much as we can basically so
the most commonly used index is called
inverted index and this has been used to
in many search engines to support basic
search algorithms sometimes other
indices for example documenting things
might be needed in order to support
feedback like I said and this this kind
of techniques are not really standard in
that they vary a lot according the
feedback methods to understand why we
want to use invert index it will be
useful for you to think about how you
would respond to a single turn query
quickly so if you want to use more time
to think about that pause the video so
think about how you can pre-process the
text data so that you can quickly
respond to a query with just one word
well if you have thought about that
question you might realize that where
the best is to simply create a list of
documents that match every term in the
vocabulary in this way you can basically
pre constructor the answers so when you
see a term you can simply just fetch the
random list of documents for that term
and return they're listed to the user so
that's the fastest way to respond to a
single time query now the idea of
inverted index is actually basically
like that we're going to pre construct
such a index that would allow us to
quickly find the all the documents that
match your particular term so let's take
a look at this example we have three
documents here and
these are the dockings that you have
seen in some previous lectures suppose
we want to create inverted indexes for
these documents then we will maintain a
dictionary in the dictionary we'll have
one entry for each time and we're gonna
store some viscous statistics about the
term for example the number of documents
that match the time or the total number
of total frequency of the time which
means we would counter duplicated
occurrences of the time and so for
example News this term occurred in all
the three documents so the counter of
documents is three and you might also
realize we need this kind of documents
or talking the frequency for computing
some statistics to be used in the vector
space model can you think of that
so what weighting heuristic would need
this count well that's the IDF right
inverse document frequency so IDF is a
property over term and we can compute it
right here
so with the talking in the account here
it's easy to compute the IDF either at
this time or when we be able to index or
at running time when we see a query now
in addition to these basic statistics we
also store all the documents that match
the news and these entries are stored in
a file called postings so in this case
it makes three documents and we store
information about these three documents
here this is the document ID document
one and the frequency is one the TF is
one for news in the second document it's
also one etcetera so from this list we
can get all the documents that match the
term news and we can also know the
frequency of news in these documents so
if the query has just a one world news
and
easy to look up at this table to find it
the ng and go quickly through the
postings to fetch all the documents that
match in yours so let's take a look at
another term this time let's take a look
at the world presidential right this
would occur in only one document
document three so the document frequency
is one but it occurred twice in this
document so the frequency count is two
and the frequency count is useful in
some other retrieval method where we
might use the frequency to assess the
popularity of a term in the collection
and similarly we have a pointer to the
postings right here and in this case
there is only one entry here because the
term occurred in just one document and
that's here the talking ID is three and
in quor'toth twice so this is the basic
idea of inverted index it's actually
pretty simple right with this structure
we can easily fetch all the locking in
that matter time and this will be the
basis for scoring documents for a query
now sometimes we also want to store the
positions of these terms so in many of
these cases the term occurs just once in
the document so there's only one
position for example in this case but in
this case the term occur twice over to
store two positions now the position
information is very useful for checking
whether the matching of query terms is
actually within a small window of let's
say five words or 10 words or whether
the maximum of the two query terms is in
fact a phrase of towards that this
cannot be checked quickly by using the
position information so why is inverted
index good for faster search well we
just talked about the possibility
of using the two ends of a single water
clear and that's very easy what about
the multiple turn queries well let's
first look at some special cases of the
boolean query a boolean query is
basically a boolean expression like this
so I want the red in the document to
match both term a and the term B so
that's one conjunctive queries or I want
the branding doctrines to match from a
or from be
that's a dismantle query now how can we
answer such a query by using weighted
index well if you think a bit about it
it would be obvious because we have
simply fetch all the documents that
match Tomei and also fetch all the
documents that match some B and then
just take the intersection to answer a
query like a and B or to take the Union
to answer the query a or b so this is
all very easy to when it's going to be
very quick now what about the marketing
keyword query we talked about vector
space model for example and would match
such a query with document name
generator score and the score is based
on aggregated at home weight so in this
case it's not a pony in query but the
scoring can be actually down in a
similar way basically it's similar to
disjunctive pony on query basically it's
like a OB we take the union of all the
documents that matches at least one P
return and then we with the aggregate
that come weight so this is a basic idea
of using word index for scoring
documents in general and we're going to
talk about this in more detail later but
for now let's just look at the question
why is inverted index a good idea
basically why is it more efficiently
then sequentially just scanning
documents right this is the obvious
approach you can just compute the score
for each document and then you can then
score them sorry you can thence
this is a straightforward method but
this is going to be very slow
imagine the web it has a lot of
documents if you do this then it would
take a long time to answer your query so
the question now is why would the in the
inverted index be much faster it has to
do with the water distribution in text
so here's some common phenomena of water
distribution and in text there are some
language-independent of patterns that
seem to be stable and these patterns are
basically characterized by the following
pattern a few words like the common word
like the we occur very very frequently
in text so they account for a larger set
of occurrences of words but most words
would occur just rarely there are many
words that occurred just once let's say
in the document or once in the traction
there were many such Singleton's it's
also true that most frequent words in
one corpus they are to be rare in
another that means although the general
phenomena is applicable or is observed
in many cases the exact words that are
common may vary from context to context
so this phenomena is characterized by
what's called a zip of law this law says
that the rank of the world multiplied by
the frequency of the world is roughly
constant so formally if we use F of the
ability note the frequency of W to
denote the rank of a word then this is
the formula it basically says the same
thing just mathematical term where C is
basically a constant and so yes so then
there is also parameter alpha that might
be adjusted to per a fit any empirical
observations so if I plot the word
frequencies in sorted order
then you can see this more
the x-axis is basically the word rank
and this is our of W and the y-axis is a
word frequency or F of W now this curve
is shows that the product of the two is
roughly the constant now if you look at
these words we can see they can be
separated into three groups in the
middle it's the intermediate that
frequency words these words tend to
occur in quite a few documents right but
they are not like those most frequent
words and they are also not very rare so
they tend to be often used in in
enquiries and they also tend to have
high tf-idf weights these intermediate
fruit in the world but if you look at
the left part of the curve these are the
highest frequency words they occur very
frequently they are usually stop words
like the Wii of etc those words are very
very frequent they are in fact the too
frequent to be discriminative and they
are generally not very useful for for
retrieval so they are often removed and
this is called a stop words removal so
you can use pretty much just the camera
words in collection to kind of infer
what words might be stopped with those
are basically the highest frequency
words and they also occupy a lot of
space in the inverted index you can
imagine the posting entries for such a
world would be very long and then
therefore if you can remove such words
you can save a lot of space in the
inverted index we also show the tail
part which he has a lot of rare words
those words don't occur very frequently
and there are many such words those
words are actually very useful for
search also if a user happens to be
interested in such a topic but because
they are rare it's often true that the
users are aren't necessary you interest
in those words but retaining them would
allow us to match such a document
accurately and they generally have very
high ideas so what kind of data
structure should we use to to store
inverted index well it has two parts
right if you recall we have a dictionary
and we also have postings the dictionary
has mostly size although for the web
it's still going to be very large but
compared with postings it's modest and
we also need to have fast random access
to the entries because we want to look
up with a query term very quickly so
therefore we prefer to keep the such a
dictionary in memory if it's possible or
if the collection is not very large
this is visible but the crank is very
large then it's in general or not
possible if the vocabulary is very large
obviously we can't do that so but in
general that's our goal also the data
structures that we often use for storing
diction on it would be direct access
there are structures like a hash table
or Peachy if we can't store everything
in memory you can use this and but to
try to build a structure that would
allow you to quickly look up entries but
for postings they are huge and in
general we don't have to have direct
access to a specific entry we generally
would just look up a sequence of
document IDs and frequencies for all the
documents that match the query term so
we would read those entries sequential
and therefore because it's large and we
generally have store postings on disk
and so they have to stay on this and
they would contain information such as
document IDs term frequencies or
compositions etc now because they are
very large compression is often
desirable now this is not only to save
disk space and this is
of course one benefit of compression
it's not gonna occupy that much space
but it's also to help improving speed
can you see why well we know that input
and output would cost a lot of time in
comparison with the time taken by CPU so
CPU is much faster but IO takes time and
so by compressing the inverted index the
posting files will become smaller and
the entries that we have the reading to
memory to process a clear it on what
would be smaller and then so we we can
reduce the amount of trafficking io and
that can save a lot of time of course we
have to then do more processing of the
data when we uncompress the data in the
memory but as I say that the CPU is fast
so overall we can still save time so
compression here is both to save disk
space and to speed up the loading of
between deaths